---
title: "Origin"
collection: talks
type: "The origin of my hobbies"
permalink: /talks/2014-03-01-talk-3
location: "Thanks my mom"
---

Firstly, I want to talk about what I’m passionate about. To give you all a quick answer, I would call it “everything that is creative and dialectic.” Sent by my mom to a studio when I was 5 years old, I began to engage with fine art. I spent 6 summers studying sketching in that studio. At that time, I didn’t know what art and beauty were; all I knew was to “just draw what you think.”

When I was 10 years old, I had a specific sketchbook to draw my costume designs. It’s sad that I can’t find it now, but I remember how I captured my inspiration, sketched it in my book, and racked my brains to select a suitable color for my dresses. During that period, I also started playing the piano. In fact, it’s something every parent in China encourages their children to do. However, I am very happy to have experienced those activities and explored something beyond the normal study routine.

Until now, I believe it’s those “seemingly useless things” that make me feel truly alive.

As I grew older, my love for the arts expanded to include books, music, and films. In literature, I am particularly drawn to contemporary Chinese works by authors like Shen Congwen, Wang Zengqi, Wang Xiaobo, Yu Hua, and Lao She. Additionally, I find great appreciation in modern Japanese literature, exploring the works of writers such as Kawabata Yasunari and Junichirous Watanabe.

When it comes to music and film, my tastes are diverse, spanning across various genres. I’ll share some of my favorites next time.
